Enumeration Through Service
Principal Names
So far we have enumerated domain
users to find logged in user accounts
that are members of high value groups.
An alternative is to target so-called
service accounts
which may also be members
of high value groups.
When an application is executed,
it is always in the context
of an operating system
user who launched it.
However, services launched
by the system itself
use the context based
on a Service Account.
In other words, isolated applications
can use a set of predefined
service accounts: LocalSystem,
LocalService, and NetworkService.
For more complex applications, a domain
user account may be used to provide
the needed context while still having
access to resources inside the domain.
When applications like Exchange, SQL,
or Internet Information Services
are integrated into Active Directory,
a unique service instance identifier known
as a service principal name (SPN)…
is used to associate a service
on a specific server
to a service account in Active Directory.
By enumerating all registered
SPNs in the domain,
we can obtain the IP address and port
number of applications running on servers
integrated with the Active Directory,
reducing the need for a broad port scan.
Since the information is registered
and stored in Active Directory,
it is present on the domain controller.
To obtain this information, we
will again query the domain controller
in search of specific
service principal names.
Let’s update our PowerShell
enumeration script to filter
the serviceprincipalname
property for the string
*http*, indicating a registered
web server.
Now we’ll run this updated
script and inspect the results.
The search returns a number of results,
and although we could further filter them,
we easily spot the
relevant information.
One attribute name, samaccountname
is set to iis_service, indicating
the presence of a web server,
and serviceprincipalname is set to
HTTP/CorpWebServer.corp.com.
This all seems to suggest a
web server is part of the domain.
Let’s attempt to resolve
“CorpWebServer.corp.com” with nslookup:
The hostname resolves to
an internal IP address,
which is also the IP address
of the domain controller.
If we browse to this IP,
we find a default IIS web server.
A domain controller would
usually not host a web server,
however, the lab is full of surprises.
While the enumeration of service
principal names does not produce
the web server software or version,
it will norrow the search and allow us
to enumerate that information
manually or with focused port scans